# Visualizing-Data-Beyond-Anscombe-s-Numbers
# Introduction:
To demonstrate the usefulness of graphics in statistical analysis, Anscombe (1973) produced four datasets each with an independent variable x and a dependent variable y that had the same summary statistics (such as mean, standard deviation, and correlation), but produced completely different scatterplots. The statistician Francis Anscombe described that “numerical calculations are exact, but graphs are rough”. It is not known, however, how Anscombe came up with his datasets. Genetic algorithms are based on natural selection and genetics and are used to generate high-quality solutions for optimization and search problems. Therefore, for this project, we planned to move with genetic algorithm to generate datasets with identical summary statistics but dissimilar graphics.

# Objective of study:
- Analyze mean, variance and correlation in generated datasets to highlight the significance of accounting for 
variability in data analysis.
- Compare the genetic algorithm approach with random data generation methods to showcase the superiority in 
replicating specific statistical characteristics.
- Apply appropriate statistical tests to compare the datasets generated by using genetic algorithm.

# Methodology:
- Research on different papers on generation of datasets similar to Amscombe’s Numbers.
- Review on the description and working mechanism of genetic algorithm.
- Study on different existing statistical tests and its mathematical applications.
- Visualization of different datasets graphically through coding.

# Expected Outcome:
- Understanding the whole concept behind the saying “numerical calculations are exact, but graphs are rough”.
- An overview of implementing genetic algorithm to perform statistics part of mathematics.
- Understanding the application of different statistical tests which have been read only theoretically.
- Learning the use of different programming languages like MATLAB and R.
